---
tags:
  - notes
description: Contract renewal and Health Check
---

# 2020-04-23

##### I feel that it's the element of surprise that affects me the most; and the stubbornness against my perspective.

##### Getting it right; to me is far more important than getting it done quickly.

### Negative

- "Experiment"
  - Shared understanding
  - Hypothesis
  - Definition of success
  - I believed that following the work Jon and I did on documenting our Process and Vanilla first approach that this "Experiment" would be following those and providing feedback.
    - On reflection; I don't think it was a good idea to purposefully isolate myself and Jon from the early discovery of the testimonial.
- Uncertainty
  - IR35
  - Coronavirus 
- Different opinions
  - Process
  - Coding techniques
  - Definition of success
  - Speed vs quality
  - Not asking questions about existing techniques
    - ns-media-object
    - Download-list
- Personal attacks 
  - Charles; Cat's talk about patterns, after Scottie discussed if we are aware of the potential impact on using Ember engines remarking on how awful Lionel is.
  - Swearing during normal conversation

- Process
  - Skipping parts of our process; not writing story tickets until after the code is 'ready to merge'
  - Writing comments into a PR raising different opinions; can be mitigated if conversations are had during the Story ticket.
- I feel that our quality has fallen.
  - Incomplete work
  - Our release notes haven't been published for ages and we don't mention about it in the #product-nucleus channel.
  - More defects are being raised for components
  - Sharing the responsibility of naming components with the community (helps to increase engagement)
- Am I perceived as a blocker and stubborn



### Positive

- Team charter
  - How do we hold ourselves accountable?
  - How to we raise a point?
- Dev coffee and daily catchups
- TechBytes
- 

### We (the devs) should be open about the work we're proposing to do and also what we're doing as we go along. [Deepan]

##### 

### NOTES

Maybe others have a different perspective on what quality means

Suggests something and we get defensive

I feel like we are failing a few points within our Vision, Mission, Purpose. [Accessibility]

Publicise how good we are outside to the wider world

Good help and collaboration is great

Edited version of our Team charter was presented in our Health Check.

After we had the blow up things are getting better.





#### Quality [red]

Action - 

#### Enjoyment [amber]

Action - 

#### Process [red]

##### Action

- Onboard everyone again
-  Roles and responsibility?
- Vanilla first vs Lean UX
- Draw a piece of work and take it through our process.
- Choose an example of a piece of work that did. This may go hand in hand.

Dan - reaaaaly does not like our process - refers to Lean UX against Vanilla first

Jon - said that testimonial did follow, but Dan challenged it

Pete - would love to be onboarded! Everyone should be involved









Shireen - Seem like there is a lot of process

Cat - Hard to understand

Praveen - Initially struggled, after a few sessions. We need to focus more on the testing process.

Ben - has seen individual initiatives to change the team. The onboarding it probably not good enough. May have a bit more governance in Nucleus as we're dealing with all product teams.

Jon - our process is delivering value forcing - accessibility, community, purpose. It's not making our lives easily at the moment. Everyone should feel ownership.

Dan - suffered with culture shock - there was no/loose process.. Build a relationship with teams in order to deliver. Fostering relationships, lacking evolution of the process. Seems like we use the process to build our relationship. Take a Lean UX approach, instead of this all upfront analysis.

Drew - surprise.. Getting it right; to me is far more important than getting it done quickly. We should discuss  this as we feel that this could be one of the causes of our 

Charles - lack of clarity I roles and responsibilities - too fluid who has decision on what.

#### Speed [amber]

Ben - has seen that inside the team the process isn't slick

Dan - measure our speed, calls have gone up (probably that he didn't bother when in the office)

#### Inspiration and Direction [green]

Dan - we are all passionate, maybe that's why we are having a bit of a clash

Charles - what he said reiterated passion, Jon - what he said, Ben - same, Drew - yup

Pete - outside perspective is not as apparent as it could be

Dee - work together with Devs from other teams - sell yourselves a bit more. Showcase how much work we're trying to undertake.

Jon - creating relationships - a year ago, we really tried pushed to get community involvement which dwindled and people were not doing what we asked. So the top down approach ended up working 

#### Releasing [amber]

Dan - release process is high risk, no willingness to change the process. Relying on clearing cache, which could be 

Drew - We could publicise our releases a bit better.



