---
tags:
  - notes

description: Day before the Easter lockdown

---

# 2020-04-09

## Observations for `ns-tesimonial` design

### Questions

- The single corner and its radius is different to most our other cards. Is this intentional? Or is it the default card that's in Sketch? (which it looks like, unfortunately it's not aligned to our coded examples).
- The typography size and weight is also a bit confusing. I'm trying to match it to our paragraphs. (It could again, be a Sketch inconsistency)

### Thoughts

A - This is a nice starting point, however is rather simplistic. (agree with Dan and Charles on lack of clarity)

B - The quote mark feels oversized and takes up too much vertical space.

C - Same thoughts as B. However, I do like the indentation but it's taking up lots of horizontal and vertical space.

D - This to me is quite impactful, and without the border to the card it feels less constrained and potentially less repetitive alongside our other cards. (agree with Dan that the all bold is less flexible)

E - I can see no BG brand influence with the square shape that's containing the quote mark (maybe it's too close to the Hive shape). Also, the position of it doesn't quite match the 3rds offset that we have our illustrations positioned in our lockups and section cards.

F - This one is a bit too close to the Highlighter, If there are both on the page at the same time, it could potentially cause a clash.

G - Same as E, (the square shape isn't on brand). The inconsistent height is kinda nice but it may look odd nearby another set of cards. The strong angular point is fun and 'quirky' but also a bit 'pointy'. Having the name outside the card reminds me of the layered effect that is part of our brand.
**Note:** If we were to take a look into the brand work that was done by Rufus Leonard there's a circle that is used to contain an icon which would be the most similar to this. But we've not used that anywhere to date. 

H - Same as E, (the square shape isn't on brand).   The vertically aligned content isn't familiar and isn't something that I'd like to see introduced.
**Note:** A new addition like this will require additional discovery work to bring in this shape that's neither an icon, nor an illustration.

I - It's apparent here that the absence of the quotation mark reinforces the quotation marks's value. It certainly aids scan-ability. The little bottom tick on its own has low affordance.
**Note:** Remember that our shadows are a bit crap at high contrast.

J - To me, this is a bit clumsy and awkward.

